[Edit] Java: iterator (#7320)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/iterator/iterator.md

    Iterator<String> it = fruits.iterator();

    // Iterate through the collection
    while (it.hasNext()) {
      String fruit = it.next();
      System.out.println(fruit);
    }
  }
}
```

The output of the above code is:

```shell
Apple
Banana
Cherry
Date
```

This example creates an `ArrayList` of fruits, obtains an iterator using the `iterator()` method, and uses a `while` loop with `hasNext()` and `next()` methods to traverse and print each element.

## Example 2: Filtering Values in a List Using Java Iterators

This example shows how to use an iterator to filter elements based on a condition:

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;
import java.util.Iterator;

public class FilterExample {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    ArrayList<Integer> numbers = new ArrayList<>();
    numbers.add(10);
    numbers.add(25);
    numbers.add(40);
    numbers.add(55);

    Iterator<Integer> it = numbers.iterator();
    System.out.println("Numbers greater than 30:");
    while (it.hasNext()) {
      int num = it.next();
      if (num > 30) {
        System.out.println(num);
      }
    }
  }
}

```

The output of the above code is:

```shell
Numbers greater than 30:
40
55
```

> This example demonstrates using an iterator to process a collection of employee objects, filtering for engineering employees with salaries above $70,000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates using an iterator to filter numbers from a list, displaying only those greater than 30.
```

---
Title: 'Iterator'
Description: 'Provides a standardized way to traverse elements in a collection sequentially.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Collections'
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'Loops'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> Java **iterator** is an interface that provides a standardized way to traverse elements in a collection sequentially, one element at a time. It acts as a cursor that points to elements within collections such as [`ArrayList`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/array-list), `LinkedList`, [`HashSet`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/hashset), and other classes that implement the [`Collection`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/collection) interface. The iterator interface is part of the Java Collections Framework and is found in the `java.util` package.

Reviewer 2: We are not defining what a cursor is. 
We should define that.
